=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Muldis::D::Manual::CD -
Simple CD database example

=head1 VERSION

This document is Muldis::D::Manual::CD version 0.3.0.

=head1 PREFACE

This document is part of the Muldis D language and implementations manual,
whose root document is L<Muldis::D::Manual>; you should read that root
document before you read this one, which provides subservient details.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This example code demonstrates a very basic CD database, which consists of
a schema definition having relvars to store data and routines to fetch or
update that data, and it includes some sample data.

This schema definition, routines, and sample data are heavily based on the
contents of L<DBIx::Class::Manual::Example>; they are essentially the same
except for optimizations to perceived better practice for Muldis D.

The database consists of the following:

    - relvar 'artists' with attributes: artist_id, artist_name
    - relvar 'cds'     with attributes: cd_id, artist_id, cd_title
    - relvar 'tracks'  with attributes: track_id, cd_id, track_title

And these rules exist:

    - one artist can have many cds
    - one cd belongs to one artist
    - one cd can have many tracks
    - one track belongs to one cd

In an effort to keep this example more realistic, the code is divided into
3 depots:

=over

=item B<the_database>

This is what you would traditionally call I<the database>.  It represents
the state of a newly created depot that has the relvar and access routine
definitions freshly installed in its catalog section, and corresponding
relvars in its data section which are empty.

=item B<insert_db>

This is a program which inserts some test data into B<the_database>.

=item B<test_db>

This is a program which queries B<the_database> and prints out its
findings for the user to see.

=back

This document has 3 main copies of the example, one in each of the 3
standard dialects of Muldis D.

=head1 EXAMPLE USING PTMD_STD DIALECT

=head2 the_database

    Muldis_D:"http://muldis.com":0.128.0:PTMD_STD:{
        catalog_abstraction_level => rtn_inv_alt_syn,
        op_char_repertoire => basic
    }

    depot-catalog {
        self-local-dbvar-type nlx.lib.CD_DB

    #######################################################################

    database-type CD_DB {
        attr $artists : nlx.lib.Artists
        attr $cds     : nlx.lib.CDs
        attr $tracks  : nlx.lib.Tracks
        constraint nlx.lib.sc_artist_has_cds
        constraint nlx.lib.sc_cd_has_tracks
    }

    subset-constraint sc_artist_has_cds {
        parent $artists using-key nlx.lib.pk_artist_id
        child $cds using-attrs { $>artist_id }
    }

    subset-constraint sc_cd_has_tracks {
        parent $cds using-key nlx.lib.pk_cd_id
        child $tracks using-attrs { $>cd_id }
    }

    #######################################################################

    tuple-type Artist {
        attr $artist_id   : Int
        attr $artist_name : Text
    }

    relation-type Artists {
        tuple-type nlx.lib.Artist
        constraint nlx.lib.pk_artist_id
    }

    primary-key pk_artist_id { $artist_id }

    #######################################################################

    tuple-type CD {
        attr $cd_id     : Int
        attr $artist_id : Int
        attr $cd_title  : Text
    }

    relation-type CDs {
        tuple-type nlx.lib.CD
        constraint nlx.lib.pk_cd_id
    }

    primary-key pk_cd_id { $cd_id }

    #######################################################################

    tuple-type Track {
        attr $track_id    : Int
        attr $cd_id       : Int
        attr $track_title : Text
    }

    relation-type Tracks {
        tuple-type nlx.lib.Track
        constraint nlx.lib.pk_track_id
    }

    primary-key pk_track_id { $track_id }

    #######################################################################

    #######################################################################

    } # depot-catalog #

    depot-data Database:{
        artists => Relation:{ artist_id, artist_name }
        cds     => Relation:{ cd_id, artist_id, cd_title }
        tracks  => Relation:{ track_id, cd_id, track_title }
    } # depot-data #

=head2 insert_db

=head2 test_db

=head1 EXAMPLE USING HDMD_Perl6_STD DIALECT

I<TODO.>

=head1 EXAMPLE USING HDMD_Perl5_STD DIALECT

I<TODO.>

=head1 SEE ALSO

Go to L<Muldis::D::Manual> for the majority of distribution-internal
references.

Go to L<DBIx::Class::Manual::Example> to see the original version of the
"Simple CD database example" from which this document was originally
derived/translated.

=head1 AUTHOR

The original document that this current document was translated from,
L<DBIx::Class::Manual::Example>, cites as its authors:

    sc_ from irc.perl.org#dbix-class
    Kieren Diment <kd@totaldatasolution.com>
    Nigel Metheringham <nigelm@cpan.org>

This current document was written/derived by:

    Darren Duncan <darren@DarrenDuncan.net>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This file is part of the Muldis D language and implementations manual.

Muldis D Manual is Copyright © 2008-2010, Muldis Data Systems, Inc.

See the LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT of L<Muldis::D::Manual> for details.

=head1 TRADEMARK POLICY

The TRADEMARK POLICY in L<Muldis::D::Manual> applies to this file too.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS in L<Muldis::D::Manual> apply to this file too.

=cut
